Reviewer 2 of ROMAN 2021 submission 121

Comments to the author
======================

This paper focuses on the human arm impedance estimation
problem. The authors proposed an experimental methodology
that allows for less constrained conditions for a
real-world application outside a laboratory. In general,
the paper is well-written, and the problem is significant
for both robotics and RO-MAN communities. Some major and
minor remarks are listed below:

Major:
- My primary concern is that it is hard to understand the
specific contribution of the work. Even though the final
goal is clear (i.e., human arm impedance estimation) and
interesting for the robotics (and RO-MAN, particularly)
community, the paper's contribution is still unclear. From
the title, one can think that the paper is proposing an
experimental protocol as a set of steps or procedures to
estimate human arm impedance. However, the abstract states
the following: "a force perturbation method is proposed..."
Then, the introduction states: "This paper proposes a new
methodology to identify the human endpoint impedance [...]
the optimisation-based estimation of the unperturbed force
trajectory proposed in this paper" Moreover, in the
conclusions section: "The identification method proposed
here..." Hence, it is not clear what is the
novelty/contribution of this work. Is it the method that
generates perturbations on the human arm? Is it the
identification model? Is it the whole experimental
procedure? This must be specified. 
- Although the apparatus is explained in [11], a brief
description needs to be included here. Otherwise, the
reader needs two papers to understand this one. Besides, a
labeled picture of the experimental setup would help
understand how the experiment is carried out. This figure
is not included here nor in [11]. Moreover, in section II
authors wrote: "The experiment is briefly recalled in this
section." Recall from where? From their previous works? 
- Overall, I can see the effort of the authors and the
potential of the work. I also understand it is hard to
include all the work they did due to page limits.
Therefore, I suggest the authors submit an expanded journal
paper considering what they presented here and previous
work in a more complete and in-detail way, including
detailed descriptions of the methods, discussion and
comparison w.r.t. the most relevant works on the
state-of-the-art, and pictures and videos of the
experiments.

Some other minor comments can be found below:
- The word "seamless" in the title can be ambiguous. Does
it mean continuous? Constant? Robust? This adjective is not
used in the body of the manuscript; hence I suggest the
authors use a more concrete synonym or eventually remove it
from the title. 
- The structure can be improved. Why is the experiment
section before the methodology section?
- Check the order and format of the references. I suggest
\bibliographystyle{IEEEtran}.
- How is the position normalized? what are the maximum
values?
- In Fig.1 (right): Why does the normalized force exceed
the maximum value? How is that possible if the maximum
payload of the Kuka Yourobot arm is 0.5kg?
- Please add labels to the figures.
- The last paragraph of section II-A is hard to read.
Please, consider rewriting this paragraph to improve the
readability.
- Where is the Force sensor placed? Is it placed on the
robot wrist? If the weight of the sensor is around 0.1kg,
then the available payload is 0.4kg. Is it correct? These
aspects should be described in the manuscript.