Reviewer 4 of ROMAN 2021 submission 121

Comments to the author
======================

The paper presents a method for estimating the impedance of
the human arm through method that involves perturbation
induced by a robot. The paper is generally written and
structured well. The method, while heavily based on
previous work, seems to be relatively novel enough.
However, there are several major issues with the claims and
implementation, as highlighted in the comments below.

1. It is very difficult to imagine the experiment task
without any figure that would visualize it. Furthermore,
there is no figure to illustrate the experiment setup
(i.e., robot, etc.). I highly recommend adding figures that
show the task and experiment setup. I guess there might be
more details in the authors previous work (i.e., [3] and
[11]), whose methods were reused in this paper, but the
paper should be at least self-contained to a bare minimum
degree.

2. In the abstract and introduction the authors motivate
the reader with a human-robot collaboration. However, the
actual experiment task is not a collaborative task.
Basically the human does the whole thing and the robot is
essentially only there to estimate the impedance. I think
the scope should be defined more realistically.

3. In addition, the motivation promises that the method
would work "outside a laboratory", which implies realistic
tasks and realistic environments, as opposed to the methods
in the literature, which according to the authors only work
in "controlled environments closer to a laboratory than to
an industrial setting". Yet, the authors did the
experiments in a controlled lab setting and chose a very
toy task, which is simulated on top of that. While on the
other hand, contrary to the authors claims, there is
literature that used actual human-robot collaboration
and/or very realistic industrial tasks, while estimating
human impedance in dynamic conditions. I think the claims
about realistic tasks and realistic environments should be
removed or they should be properly backed up by new
experiments.

4. To my knowledge, it is impossible to extract the
reference trajectory (i.e., "virtual trajectory") of a
human limb as commanded by the human central neurons
system. Since Section III is claiming to estimate it, how
can you then know or validate whether the estimation is
anywhere near what the actual is? It should be noted that
the reference trajectory of a human arm is not at all the
same as the actual arm trajectory under unperturbed
condition. For one, due to the gravity the reference has to
be above the intended actual arm movement. So if the
"ground truth" in the experimental comparison was the
actual unperturbed movement (as stated), that is definitely
not the reference (virtual) trajectory. So I am sceptical
in the proposed experimental analysis.
